Password Optional: Overview (#3576)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/pwd-optional-overview/main/index.md

---

> title: Password optional overview

Reviewer: I thought it was called Password-optional authentication, not passwordless? The title "Password optional overview" doesn't make sense if you only call it passwordless here. If the official name is "Password optional", use that.

I'd suggest find an replace the term in the whole article and won't mention it again.

---

## Overview

> Most hacking-related breaches today involve weak or stolen passwords and credential security theft. Passwords are a security vulnerability because they can be easily stolen and are prone to phishing attacks. They're also not convenient either. Users often need to remember multiple passwords, change them regularly, and either memorize or store them securely somewhere.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most hacking-related breaches involve weak or stolen passwords and credential security theft. Passwords are a security vulnerability because they can be easily stolen and are prone to phishing attacks. They're also not convenient. Users often need to remember multiple passwords, change them regularly, and either memorize or store them securely somewhere.
```

Author: updated.

> Ditch the password for a passwordless sign-in experience. Give your users the ability to authenticate with a fingerprint, YubiKey, email, phone, or another authenticator. These authenticators can be more secure – it's harder to steal a fingerprint than a password – and more convenient since users no longer have to memorize and manage their passwords.

Reviewer: Ditch doesn't sound great.
```suggestion
Replace the password with a passwordless sign-in experience. Give your users the ability to authenticate with a fingerprint, a YubiKey, an email, a phone, or with another authenticator. These authenticators are all more secure&mdash;it's harder to steal a fingerprint than a password&mdash;and more convenient since users no longer have to memorize and manage their passwords.
```

Author: Updated. But did not an "a". We can talk about it.

<div class="three-quarters">

> ![Screenshot showing a sign-in page with a sign-up link.](/img/pwd-optional/pwd-optional-overview-xy-diagram.png)

Reviewer: Image description needs updating

</div>

## Integration guides

> Implement passwordless authentication in your app using Okta's Embedded solutions and replace the password with more secure and convenient [authenticators](/docs/guides/authenticators-overview/main/). Use the following integration guides to step through a simple set of use cases and start your passwordless journey.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implement passwordless authentication in your app using Okta's embedded solutions and replace the password with more secure and convenient [authenticators](/docs/guides/authenticators-overview/main/). Use the following integration guides to step through a simple set of use cases and start your passwordless journey.
```

Author: updated.

### Embedded SDK

* <StackSnippet snippet="signupwithemail" inline/>
* <StackSnippet snippet="signinwithemail" inline/>
* <StackSnippet snippet="changeemail" inline/>

### Embedded Widget

* <StackSnippet snippet="widgetsignin" inline/>

> Also, check out the <StackSnippet snippet="bestpractices" inline/>, to learn about best practices that will help you build a solid passwordless sign-in solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, learn about the <StackSnippet snippet="bestpractices" inline/> that will help you build a solid passwordless sign-in solution.
```

Author: Updated.

## See also

* [Okta Passwordless Authentication](https://www.okta.com/passwordless-authentication/)
* [Let’s (finally) say goodbye to passwords](https://www.okta.com/go-passwordless/)

> * [Passwordless authentication deployment guide](https://help.okta.com/oie/en-us/Content/Topics/identity-engine/guides/pwa/pwa-main.htm)

Reviewer: This needs to be an help.okta alias

Author: Okay. Read through the Alias docs but going to need to pick your brain tomorrow about how to use these.

Author: I commented out that link for now.
